TODO.md, before:

deny topic etc names beyond simple fs compatible setups

test big payloads

TODO:
Broker should no longer:
loop compute_start_offset() by calling is_inflight_or_acked() repeatedly.
Instead:
start = stroma.next_deliverable(tp,g, current_cursor, upper)
Also: redelivery queue should remain bounded by inflight cap (it mostly is already), but don’t let it accumulate unbounded offsets from repeated failures—Stroma can own "expired offsets" listing.

Redelivery not counted as inflight(not added to set)? Consider how to handle

Revisit batch size/timeout dynamic rampups based on load (Revisit PID controller setup?)

refactor batching to not be ad hoc but separate layer with centralized reusable logic

play with having code return dummy responses and see max broker throughput and bottlenecks

ui login

reorganize for structs/models in a common crate, to avoid circles between metrics and storage too

more cleanup tests

cleanup leftover inflight without message (or better figure why it happens)

Make sure cleanup reclaims space(seems not to?)

config

Handshake two way

ack correct matching(sub id?), in tcp layer

partitions nuke or adjust

max unconfirmed per publisher

slow ingress on memory/storage pressure

better enforced write guarantees(getting a confirm, etc, means already on disk) (enqueue confirms, send on batch write?)

unwrap/expect cleanup

proper connection handling(heartbeat, ping pong, early dc detection)

experiment with spreading delivered messages by making some consumers slower and see what happens

better handling of batching slowdown when confirms not drained

better error handling(return loud errors when failing to publish)

diagnostics queue/channel to allow sending up non fatal issues and tallying/observing them better?

multiple brokers on same storage tests (must fail)

shutdown stops publishing immediately, tries to drain inflight, ensure no late ack flushes race, ensure batchers drain once

define a formal delivery state machine (very useful later)?

Eval persisting inflight map, or delivery tags for inflight, so inflight state can be recovered on startup after crash

reeval:
Persist a delivery cursor
Instead of inferring:
store next_offset durably per (topic, group)
advance it only after mark_inflight_batch succeeds
on restart, read it directly

clusters (leader through shared networked storage initially, raft replication later?)

cli

confirm stream(option, config) and test

metadata(content type, redelivered, etc)

RabidMQ easter egg(--version during April 1st? rabbitmq compatibility layer?)

routing layer? (in order to keep invariants stable, maybe we'd need a separate layer, broker delivers to itself, runs script, acks onces derived message completes, effectively)

dead letter queue? (expired, nacked too much, etc) (part of routing?)

nack/reject

queues with ttl to discard(not just resend)

define ops/infra story for easy convenient deployments and handling(not error prone by default, don't assume user does things right)

write an operator runbook

rabbitmq compatible endpoint?

replace epoch in delivery tag with gen and seq. Seq is simple monotonic counter, gen is increased per instance(process? task?) created

dls or embedded language to script transformations, routing, etc?

recovered_cursors, topics, etc, cleanup after inactivity? (when empty, occasional cleanup)

Commit message:

Start cleanup for consider groups, implementing dql, nack and reject, plus adjusting for new enqueue event

TODO.md, after:

deny topic etc names beyond simple fs compatible setups

groups will be cosmetic to create topics like Topic::Group

Add display names to topics/groups for logging/ui

add events for changing queue settings (ttl, max inflight, etc)
add global event log for stroma setting changes
Investigate need for Requeued event?
Use enqueued map to fetch available(event log is now source of truth and atomicity)
append message must now add enqueued event too and make sure both succeed before returning ok(maybe add a custom completion type that can add the event if event possible? or find another efficvient way)

split Keratin writer to three threads, for pipelinining 1. Batching, 2. Writing and Fsyncing(or fsync yet another?), 3. Notifying awaiters when done. Use channels to efficiently pass data to the next.

Make all broker side channels bounder(to avoid OOM on slow consumers by creating backpressure upstream)

Finish dead letter queue implementation, untangle any fallible/storage bits to outside state methods and on event log application
Perhaps use completions to apply the events in memory only after persisting them

clean up group related tests

test big payloads

Investigate single log(storage message log only used for messages beyond a certain size?) for stroma topic state? Message Offsets are now enqueue offsets, requeue event to avoid payload duplication

TODO:
Broker should no longer:
loop compute_start_offset() by calling is_inflight_or_acked() repeatedly.
Instead:
start = stroma.next_deliverable(tp,g, current_cursor, upper)
Also: redelivery queue should remain bounded by inflight cap (it mostly is already), but don’t let it accumulate unbounded offsets from repeated failures—Stroma can own "expired offsets" listing.

Redelivery not counted as inflight(not added to set)? Consider how to handle

play with having code return dummy responses and see max broker throughput and bottlenecks

ui login

reorganize for structs/models in a common crate, to avoid circles between metrics and storage too

more cleanup tests

cleanup leftover inflight without message (or better figure why it happens)

Make sure cleanup reclaims space

config

Handshake two way

proper connection handling(heartbeat, ping pong, early dc detection)

ack correct matching(sub id?), in tcp layer

partitions nuke or adjust

max unconfirmed per publisher

slow ingress on memory/storage pressure

unwrap/expect cleanup

experiment with spreading delivered messages by making some consumers slower and see what happens

better handling of batching slowdown when confirms not drained

better error handling(return louder errors when failing to publish)

diagnostics queue/channel to allow sending up non fatal issues and tallying/observing them better?

multiple brokers on same storage tests (must fail)

shutdown stops publishing immediately, tries to drain inflight, ensure no late ack flushes race, ensure batchers drain once

define a formal delivery state machine (very useful later)?

Eval persisting inflight map, or delivery tags for inflight, so inflight state can be recovered on startup after crash

reeval:
Persist a delivery cursor
Instead of inferring:
store next_offset durably per (topic, group)
advance it only after mark_inflight_batch succeeds
on restart, read it directly

clusters (leader through shared networked storage initially, raft replication later?)

cli

metadata(content type, redelivered, etc)

RabidMQ easter egg(--version during April 1st? rabbitmq compatibility layer?)

routing layer? (in order to keep invariants stable, maybe we'd need a separate layer, broker delivers to itself, runs script, acks onces derived message completes, effectively)

dead letter queue? (expired, nacked too much, etc) (part of routing?)

nack/reject

queues with ttl to discard(not just resend)

define ops/infra story for easy convenient deployments and handling(not error prone by default, don't assume user does things right)

write an operator runbook

rabbitmq compatible endpoint?

replace epoch in delivery tag with gen and seq. Seq is simple monotonic counter, gen is increased per instance(process? task?) created

dls or embedded language to script transformations, routing, etc?

recovered_cursors, topics, etc, cleanup after inactivity? (when empty, occasional cleanup)
